Unless very creative registrant points, it's working.
We saw that we can create users.
So now it's time to create the logging endpoint to allow us to authenticate user start with a post mapping.
And we defined the endpoint that we need.
So in this case, I want thus logging, I will keep the same structure to the same conversion.
So I left logging response to return a logging response object.
I will call my method logging and my, uh, the body of the request will be, uh, structured as the
logging, uh, request.
Object.
That doesn't exist yet, but we are going to create it right away.
We use Java records as before.
So my logging request will be simply a string email.
String password.
And for the log in response, I will copy exactly the same structure that I'm using in the register
and points.
I will change the name to log in response.
In this case, one could argue.
Why not using the same object if the object is already here?
Why do I duplicate gold instead of just using the same object?
And the reason?
And the answer to that is that these two objects.
So first of all, they are not classes, they are records, and they are objects with two different
purposes.
This is a responsible record.
Its purpose is to, um, structure the response of the register in point call and log.
And response is to structure the response of the logging in point.
And at this point in time, the response is the same.
But in the future they might f different responses.
And by clearly separating these two concerns in different records, we make sure that in the future,
if we have to change one or the other, we will not have side effects and we will not have to do these
impact analysis.
So just a good practice to use these different purpose, um, records.
So my application, I need my user.
I need to find a user for this email that I'm going to receive.
So in my old service, I will create a method logging and this method will take logging request.
Email.
And logging request.
But those are the arguments of my method.
I will gently ask my ID to create a method.
Method of return type user to take a string email, string password and for the moment it returns null.
For the moment, it's it's fine.
So.
On my controller.
I will return.
And you log into response.
And if you see the scene as you go off, log in.
The response is I.D. first name, last name, email.
So, user load I.D..
User first name.
User last name.
User email we see that's.
The editor helped me with that.
So return log and response I.D..
First name, last name.
Email.
My controller is implemented.
We go to the logging method in the service I'm knowing authorization, service or service as I called
it.
Indeed.
I need to simply do, uh, I need to do two things.
I need to find my user by email.
I need to.
See if the passwords.
Much.
And I have to return my.
That's it.
Find you there by email.
So I want to find my user.
And I use my repository as a user repo and I need to find and I don't have a method yet to find by email.
So I'll write it like this.
Find by email.
Java is a verbose language, so you should write long methods and the methods should be descriptive.
And sometimes it's a bit too much, too much information on the screen, but sometimes it comes, uh,
you know, there is a reason for, for this to be like that.
And this is one of these cases.
And in fact, I will now kindly ask my editor to also create this method on my user repository class.
So my user repo, this class will return an optional user because the user might or might not exist
for this email.
And in fact, when I write it like this spring data, which is the framework that we're using, we'll,
uh, write a query in a background that is something like this.
Email equals email.
Okay, this is what it's done with this email being that you may hear the argument in the background,
the framework will write this query for us.
So it will find, uh, to do not to select all but select one.
Where email, uh, equals email.
So we don't need to worry about this.
The framework will do, uh, for us in this case, having to write a longer, long letter names.
It's comes to.
To.
Other than to.
So I find my email.
This is of the optional user, so I might not find it.
If I don't find it.
I will throw an exception.
So in this case I will throw a new response status except exception.
We are always using the same expert exception issue status bed request.
And I will say.
Invalid credentials.
Okay, so if I don't find a user for this email, I will throw the request with the invalid credentials.
Then I need to see if the passwords match.
So if.
And I will use my password recorder for this.
Which contains the metal matches.
And if you see the signature, the method will compare a raw password with the encoded password without
being without digging into detail.
But the password is stored usually with the salt to add to to avoid that.
If you encode the password, you will find that you think if we called multiple times the same password.
If you don't use the salt, you get the same result.
So despite not being able to, uh, decode, um, the code again, the password, we also, you will
always be able to to see to two different people add the same password of not so to avoid these, usually
they are stored with we the salt that solves this issue and causes.
Passwords that are encoded multiple times to have always different output and the pace.
So my robust word.
When I received it.
And then my uncle, the password user gets the password.
And in case I want to negate this.
So if they don't match.
I want to draw new response.
State is exception.
HTP status by request.
In this case.
You have all these provincials.
Same errors as above.
Here we opt to hide the fact if the wrong credential is the user or the password.
This is simply to.
If someone is trying to find use of password by, uh, brute force, uh, we added this piece of information
from, from them, and then we just return the user and we can clean up these comments.
They're not needed anymore.
Screen.
So I'm leaving presentation mode.
I will run my application.
Bozeman.
I will try to login.
Log in.
My password is correct.
If my password is wrong.
I have all these credentials is my password is correct, but my email doesn't exist.
I get also wrong credentials.
So my logging in point is working as we, uh, we expected.
Only thing left is to commit.
The changes.
Step 11 Logging in point.
Changed to controller was changed.
Service.
And we also changed the repository to implement these methods so we can commit.
And seeing the next video.